# Implementing Multidimensional Arrays in JavaScript

**Numerical Computing in a Hostile Environment**

But despite the numerous practical advantages to working in JavaScript (especially from a user experience perspective) there are still many things that JS just sucks at.  For me the most painful of these is the weak support for numerical computing and binary data types.  These problems are due to fundamental limitations of the language, and not something that can be papered over in a library.  For example, in JS there is:

This situation is bad, but the benefits of using JS from an accessibility perspective are just too big to ignore, and so it is at least worth it to try as much as can be done within the limitations of the system.  Moreover, these obstacles are by no means unprecedented in the world of computing.  As an instructive example, consider the Java programming language:  Java suffers from exactly the same design flaws listed above, and yet it is a viable platform for numerical computing with an enthusiastic community (though it is still nowhere near as fast as more efficiently designed languages like Fortran/C99).  So, it is a plausible hypothesis that JavaScript could achieve similar results.

Now, reimplementing say LAPACK or SciPy is a huge project, and it is not reasonable to try doing it in a single article or even within a single library.  To help focus our inquiries, let us first restrict the scope of our search.    Instead, let us study today on the fundamental problem of implementing multidimensional arrays.
